By now you may have realized that the position title of data scientist is not the only title that pertains
to data science ideas such as probability coding machine learning cetera.
Let's go ahead and go over at different positions and titles and what employers in general expect from
someone applying to that particular position.
So as I mentioned that data scientist is not the only job title that companies use and lots of companies
use different titles for different focuses for roles in the field of science and I should be clear here
at the companies also use the same term differently.
So a data scientist at a small company may be called a data analyst at a larger company like Google.
So we're going to go over a few titles under general descriptions and things that tend to differentiate
these titles.
Again each company may be a different situation.
So first off we have someone that's maybe called a product analyst or sometimes a product data scientist
and this is a person who analyzes user data to create reports that generally go to their product managers
directly.
And typically they're using coding as their main tool but sometimes certain companies may prefer a pre-defined
software tool something like Tablo for instance.
Then there's the business analyst or someone who works in Business Intelligence and that's attempting
to create insights and analysis from business data.
So this may also be user data.
But specifically this data pertains to whatever the main business of this company is.
And often a business analyst or business intelligence engineer is going to focus on using a specific
tool such as Tablo or Excel or maybe using some internal tool.
And in fact if you're a business intelligence engineer your job may be to actually help develop an internal
tool that mimics some of the features of Tablo or Excel but is more specifically designed towards whatever
this particular company's business data is.
Then you have the title of machine learning engineer.
Now machine learning engineer this tends to be a very technical role both in theoretical knowledge and
really good coding skills are necessary.
And in general the machine learning engineer is going to create custom machine learning algorithm models
for the team.
So they're not just going to do simple imports from some sort of pre-determine library like sikat learn
or some of the models that already exist are.
If you're being hired on as a machine learning engineer it's likely that you're going to have to develop
some sort of custom machine learning algorithm model and it's going to be based on the fundamentals
things like rain forest or me regression models etc. but you're going to have to customize them to this
particular company's needs.
So again this is usually a very technical role and a lot of times companies are going to the man some
sort of higher education to reflect that technical ability.
Not always but it is pretty common.
Then you have a data engineer role which differs from the machine learning engineer now a Data Engineer.
It's again a technical role but it's actually focused more on coding and tools and not so much on theory
and the Data Engineer.
Typically a company is going to be building pipelines that connect the actual data warehouse to data
analysis or machine learning systems.
So a lot of times you can think of the Data Engineer as the person that's building the systems that
connect the actual data warehouse to the team that's going to analyze the data scientists themselves.
Then you have this classic data scientist role and title and this generally requires a mix of coding
and theory skills and often companies are going to post a more detailed use case on the actual job posting.
So overall for many of these positions focus less on the actual title and focus more on the qualifying
skills of the job posting itself.
So you can use sites like Glassdoor dot com to find out more information about company job titles and
what that job title actually relates to as far as day to day tasks are concerned.
At that company.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.